README.md, before:

# Deploy ESXi+vsphere lab on libvirt

## Description

This playbook will deploy:

- a local vsphere
- two ESXi
- a datastore VM (with a NFS)

It can easier target a local Libvirt hypervisor, or an OpenStack tenant.

## Requirements

- a Python virtualenv
- memory 20GB
- vcpus: 2 for vcenter, 1 for ESXi, more will probably seriously increase the performance
- Ansible 2.8+
- Qcow2 Images:
    - ESXi: https://github.com/virt-lightning/esxi-cloud-images
    - vcenter: https://github.com/goneri/vcsa_to_qcow2
- A copy of the following repository in the ../ansible-zuul directory.

    mkdir ../ansible-zuul
    git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible-zuul-jobs ../ansible-zuul/ansible-zuul-jobs
    git clone https://opendev.org/zuul/zuul-jobs.git ../ansible-zuul/zuul-jobs

### Libvirt

- A working libvirt installation
- Virt-Lightning
- Ensure nested KVM is enabled
    ```shell
    cat /etc/modprobe.d/kvm.conf
    options kvm_intel nested=1 enable_apicv=n
    options kvm ignore_msrs=1
    ```

## Installation

    python3 -menv my_venv
    source my_venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ./run.py --driver libvirt deploy

## Usage

Just use the `--help` argument:

    ./run.py --help

For instance, to start a deployment:

    ./run.py --driver openstack deploy


## How to run the community.vmware test-suite

### prepare a venv

Prepare and load a virtualenv, install ansible and position yourself in ~/.ansible/collections/ansible_collections/community/vmware/

You should also install some extra dependencies with:

    pip install -r requirements.txt -r test-requirements.txt

### write the configuration for ansible-test

You need to write a configuration file in your collection directory with the lab credentials. e.g:

    [DEFAULT]
    vcenter_username: administrator@vsphere.local
    vcenter_password: QW/B|aEwN*NUQ,~7$Llf
    vcenter_hostname: vcenter.test
    vmware_validate_certs: false
    esxi1_username: zuul
    esxi1_hostname: esxi1.test
    esxi1_password: 1oaGnT1OxWOPw3456

To know the correct passwords, take a look at the following files:

- `/tmp/vcenter/tmp/vcenter_password.txt`
- `/tmp/vcenter/tmp/esxi_password_zuul.txt`

### call ansible-test

For here you can call `ansible-test` with:

    VMWARE_TEST_PLATFORM=static ansible-test integration --python 3.9 vmware_dvswitch

Just replace `3.9`` with your actual verison of Python, and `vmware_dvswitch`` with the target to run.

### Automate all these steps with `--run-test true`

You can automate all these steps if you pass `--run-test true` to `./run.sh`.
In this case, the `playbooks/run_test.yaml` playbook will be executed at the end of the deployment.
You just need to adjust some variables in `playbooks/run_test.yaml` to match your local set-up.

The nice part of this is that it reproduces the behaviour of the Zuul-CI. And so, simplify the
testing/troubleshooting of Zuul's configuration.

Commit message:

doc: add some missing information

README.md, after:

# Deploy ESXi+vsphere lab on libvirt

## Description

This playbook will deploy:

- a local vsphere
- two ESXi
- a datastore VM (with a NFS)

It can easier target a local Libvirt hypervisor, or an OpenStack tenant.

## Requirements

- a Python virtualenv
- memory 20GB
- vcpus: 2 for vcenter, 1 for ESXi, more will probably seriously increase the performance
- Ansible 2.8+
- Qcow2 Images. If you can get access to some existing images, it's better. The creation process is time consuming.
    - ESXi: https://github.com/virt-lightning/esxi-cloud-images
    - vcenter: https://github.com/goneri/vcsa_to_qcow2
- A copy of the following repository in the ../ansible-zuul directory.

    mkdir ../ansible-zuul
    git clone https://github.com/ansible/ansible-zuul-jobs ../ansible-zuul/ansible-zuul-jobs
    git clone https://opendev.org/zuul/zuul-jobs.git ../ansible-zuul/zuul-jobs

### Libvirt

- A working libvirt installation
- Virt-Lightning
- Ensure nested KVM is enabled
    ```shell
    cat /etc/modprobe.d/kvm.conf
    options kvm_intel nested=1 enable_apicv=n
    options kvm ignore_msrs=1
    ```

## Installation

    python3 -menv my_venv
    source my_venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ./run.py --driver libvirt deploy

## Usage

Just use the `--help` argument:

    ./run.py --help

For instance, to start a deployment:

    ./run.py --driver openstack deploy


## How to run the community.vmware test-suite

### prepare a venv

Prepare and load a virtualenv, install ansible and position yourself in ~/.ansible/collections/ansible_collections/community/vmware/

You should also install some extra dependencies with:

    pip install -r requirements.txt -r test-requirements.txt

### Adjust the /etc/hosts

Add the following entries in your `/etc/hosts`:

    192.168.123.4 datastore.test datastore
    192.168.123.6 esxi1.test esxi1
    192.168.123.7 esxi2.test esxi2
    192.168.123.8 vcenter.test vcenter

### write the configuration for ansible-test

You need to write a configuration file in your collection directory with the lab credentials. e.g:

    [DEFAULT]
    vcenter_username: administrator@vsphere.local
    vcenter_password: QW/B|aEwN*NUQ,~7$Llf
    vcenter_hostname: vcenter.test
    vmware_validate_certs: false
    esxi1_username: zuul
    esxi1_hostname: esxi1.test
    esxi1_password: 1oaGnT1OxWOPw3456

To know the correct passwords, take a look at the following files:

- `/tmp/vcenter/tmp/vcenter_password.txt`
- `/tmp/vcenter/tmp/esxi_password_zuul.txt`

### call ansible-test

For here you can call `ansible-test` with:

    VMWARE_TEST_PLATFORM=static ansible-test integration --python 3.9 vmware_dvswitch

Just replace `3.9`` with your actual verison of Python, and `vmware_dvswitch`` with the target to run.

### Automate all these steps with `--run-test true`

You can automate all these steps if you pass `--run-test true` to `./run.sh`.
In this case, the `playbooks/run_test.yaml` playbook will be executed at the end of the deployment.
You just need to adjust some variables in `playbooks/run_test.yaml` to match your local set-up.

The nice part of this is that it reproduces the behaviour of the Zuul-CI. And so, simplify the
testing/troubleshooting of Zuul's configuration.
